前言：笨办法更简单
======================

这本小书的目的是让你起步编程。虽然书名说是“笨办法”,但其实并非如此。
所谓的“笨办法”是指本书教授的方式。在这本书的帮助下，你将通过非常简单的练习学会一门编程语言。
做练习是每个程序员的必经之路：

1. 做每一道习题
2. 一字不差地写出每一个程序
3. 让程序运行起来

就这样了。一开始，这可能会*非常*难，但是你需要坚持下去。
如果你读完了这本书，而且每天晚上花一两个小时做习题，
你可以为读下一本书打下一个坚实的基础。
你可能没法从这本书里真正学到“编程”，但是你能学到最基本的学习方法。

这本书的目的是教会你编程新手的三项最重要的技能：读&写、注重细节、发现不同。

Reading and Writing
-------------------

It seems stupidly obvious, but, if you have a problem typing, you will
have a problem learning to code. Especially if you have a problem typing
the fairly odd characters in source code. Without this simple skill you
will be unable to learn even the most basic things about how software
works.

Typing the code samples and getting them to run will help you learn the
names of the symbols, get familiar with typing them, and get you reading
the language.

Attention to Detail
-------------------

The one skill that separates bad programmers from good programmers is
attention to detail. In fact, it's what separates the good from the bad
in any profession. Without paying attention to the tiniest details of
your work, you will miss key elements of what you create. In
programming, this is how you end up with bugs and difficult-to-use
systems.

By going through this book, and copying each example *exactly*, you will
be training your brain to focus on the details of what you are doing, as
you are doing it.

Spotting Differences
--------------------

A very important skill -- that most programmers develop over time -- is
the ability to visually notice differences between things. An
experienced programmer can take two pieces of code that are slightly
different and immediately start pointing out the differences.
Programmers have invented tools to make this even easier, but we won't
be using any of these. You first have to train your brain the hard way,
then you can use the tools.

While you do these exercises, typing each one in, you will be making
mistakes. It's inevitable; even seasoned programmers would make a few.
Your job is to compare what you have written to what's required, and fix
all the differences. By doing so, you will train yourself to notice
mistakes, bugs, and other problems.

Do Not Copy-Paste
-----------------

You must *type* each of these exercises in, manually. If you copy and
paste, you might as well just not even do them. The point of these
exercises is to train your hands, your brain, and your mind in how to
read, write, and see code. If you copy-paste, you are cheating yourself
out of the effectiveness of the lessons.

A Note On Practice And Persistence
----------------------------------

While you are studying programming, I'm studying how to play guitar. I
practice it every day for at least 2 hours a day. I play scales, chords,
and arpeggios for an hour at least and then learn music theory, ear
training, songs and anything else I can. Some days I study guitar and
music for 8 hours because I feel like it and it's fun. To me repetitive
practice is natural and just how to learn something. I know that to get
good at anything you have to practice every day, even if I suck that day
(which is often) or it's difficult. Keep trying and eventually it'll be
easier and fun.

As you study this book, and continue with programming, remember that
anything worth doing is difficult at first. Maybe you are the kind of
person who is afraid of failure so you give up at the first sign of
difficulty. Maybe you never learned self-discipline so you can't do
anything that's "boring". Maybe you were told that you are "gifted" so
you never attempt anything that might make you seem stupid or not a
prodigy. Maybe you are competitive and unfairly compare yourself to
someone like me who's been programming for 20+ years.

Whatever your reason for wanting to quit, keep at it. Force yourself. If
you run into an Extra Credit you can't do, or a lesson you just do not
understand, then skip it and come back to it later. Just keep going
because with programming there's this very odd thing that happens.

At first, you will not understand anything. It'll be weird, just like
with learning any human language. You will struggle with words, and not
know what symbols are what, and it'll all be very confusing. Then one
day *BANG* your brain will snap and you will suddenly "get it". If you
keep doing the exercises and keep trying to understand them, you will
get it. You might not be a master coder, but you will at least
understand how programming works.

If you give up, you won't ever reach this point. You will hit the first
confusing thing (which is everything at first) and then stop. If you
keep trying, keep typing it in, trying to understand it and reading
about it, you will eventually get it.

But, if you go through this whole book, and you still do not understand
how to code, at least you gave it a shot. You can say you tried your
best and a little more and it didn't work out, but at least you tried.
You can be proud of that.

License
-------

This book is Copyright (C) 2011 by Zed A. Shaw. You are free to
distribute this book to anyone you want, so long as you do *not* charge
anything for it, *and* it is not altered. You must give away the book in
its entirety, or not at all. This means it's alright for you to teach a
class using the book, so long as you aren't charging students for the
*book* and you give them the whole book unmodified.

Special Thanks
--------------

I'd like to thank a few people who helped with this edition of the book.
First is my editor at *Pretty Girl Editing Services* who helped me edit
the book and is just lovely all by herself. Then there's *Greg Newman*,
who did the cover jacket and artwork, plus reviewed copies of the book.
His artwork made the book look like a real book, and didn't mind that I
totally forgot to give him credit in the first edition. I'd also like to
thank *Brian Shumate* for doing the website landing page and other site
design help, which I need a lot of help on.

Finally, I'd like to thank the hundreds of thousands of people who read
the first edition and especially the ones who submitted bug reports and
comments to improve the book. It really made this edition solid and I
couldn't have done it without all of you. Thank you.
